Serenity updates - September - New features rules (#766)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/updates/2020-09/1-be-more-and-more-productive-when-using-rules.md

---
pim_announcement_audience:
- EE
---

# Be more and more productive when using rules

Two new improvements will help you be more and more productive when using the rules engine: you can now duplicate your rules and define a status for them!

## Duplicate your rules
::: meta-data type="New" features="Rules engine, Productivity" available="late September" link-to-doc="../articles/manage-your-rules.html#duplicate-a-rule"
:::

In order to avoid re-writing the whole rule, you are now able to duplicate it in two clicks! Indeed, sometimes, you may have very similar rules with only one condition that is different, for instance. What a time saver, isn't it? :wink:

## Define a status for your rules
::: meta-data type="New" features="Rules engine, Productivity" available="late September" link-to-doc="../articles/manage-your-rules.html#define-a-status-for-a-rule"
:::

> This new status enables you to activate or deactivate your rules.

Reviewer: If you want to go to the next line, add a double space at the end of this one.

> For example, if the creation/edition of the rule is not finished yet, setting its status to "disabled" will pause the automatic execution of the rule.

Reviewer: Idem for this line. ;)

---
pim_announcement_img: ./img/Rules_grid.png
pim_announcement_alt_img: "The new rules grid"
pim_announcement_audience:
- EE
---

# Be more and more productive when using rules

Two new improvements will help you be more and more productive when using the rules engine: you can now duplicate your rules and define a status for them!

## Duplicate your rules
::: meta-data type="New" features="Rules engine, Productivity" available="late September" link-to-doc="../articles/manage-your-rules.html#duplicate-a-rule"
:::

In order to avoid re-writing the whole rule, you are now able to duplicate it in two clicks! Indeed, sometimes, you may have very similar rules with only one condition that is different, for instance. What a time saver, isn't it? :wink:

![Duplicate your rule](../img/Rules_Duplicate.png)

## Define a status for your rules
::: meta-data type="New" features="Rules engine, Productivity" available="late September" link-to-doc="../articles/manage-your-rules.html#define-a-status-for-a-rule"
:::

> This new status enables you to activate or deactivate your rules.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We introduced a new property for rules: an enabled/disabled status. This new status allows you to easily activate or deactivate your rules.  
```
